Chloroplasts are a type of plastid—a round, oval, or disk-shaped body that is 
involved in the synthesis and storage of foodstuffs. Chloroplasts are 
distinguished from other types of plastids by their green colour, which results 
from the presence of two pigments, chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b. A 
function of those pigments is to absorb light energy for the process of 
photosynthesis. Other pigments, such as carotenoids, are also present in 
chloroplasts and serve as accessory pigments, trapping solar energy and 
passing it to chlorophyll. In plants, chloroplasts occur in all green tissues, 
though they are concentrated particularly in the parenchyma cells of the leaf 
mesophyll. 
 
The chloroplast is the major organelle in plant and algal cells responsible for 
photosynthesis. It is also the factory in which many other essential biosynthetic 
reactions occur, including synthesis of amino acids, fatty acids and terpenes. In plants, 
the chloroplast is only one of a number of plastids that include proplastids, etioplasts, 
chromplasts, leucoplasts, amyloplasts, elaioplasts, proteinoplast or aleuronoplasts and 
gerontoplasts. These plastids display different morphologies, perform specialized 
functions and store various biochemical compounds during plant development. Under 
certain conditions, plastid types can interconvert. Chloroplasts possess three membrane 
systems: the outer envelope, the inner envelope and thylakoid membranes. These in 
turn enclose three aqueous compartments: the intermembrane space, stroma and 
thylakoid lumen. The structural and functional complexities of this organelle require the 
concerted action of some 3000 different proteins. 
Chloroplasts originated from endosymbiotic cyanobacteria, with the original symbiotic 
event estimated to have occurred approximately 1.5 billion years ago. In order to achieve 
a mutually beneficial endosymbiosis, two major events happened. First, the 
endosymbiont transferred the bulk of its genes to the host genome, and second, it 
developed protein import systems to translocate proteins from the host cytoplasm back 
into the endosymbiont. Two sources were used by the endosymbiont to construct the 
protein transport machinery; one native to the host cell and the other native to the 
prokaryotic endosymbiont 